<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>Chapter 1</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/style.css" />
    </head>
    <body class="chapter1">
        <section id="c1_intro" class="chapter" title="Chapter 1" epub:type="chapter">
            <h2 class="title">Chapter One</h2>
            <p>It was a dark and stormy night; the rain fell in torrents, except at occasional intervals, when it was checked by a violent gust of wind which swept up the streets (for it is in London that our scene lies), rattling along the house-tops, and fiercely agitating the scanty flame of the lamps that struggled against the darkness. Through one of the obscurest quarters of London, and among haunts little loved by the gentlemen of the police, a man, evidently of the lowest orders, was wending his solitary way. He stopped twice or thrice at different shops and houses of a description correspondent with the appearance of the quartier in which they were situated, and tended inquiry for some article or another which did not seem easily to be met with. All the answers he received were couched in the negative; and as he turned from each door he muttered to himself, in no very elegant phraseology, his disappointment and discontent. At length, at one house, the landlord, a sturdy butcher, after rendering the same reply the inquirer had hitherto received, added, "But if this vill do as vell, Dummie, it is quite at your sarvice!" Pausing reflectively for a moment, Dummie responded that he thought the thing proffered might do as well; and thrusting it into his ample pocket, he strode away with as rapid a motion as the wind and the rain would allow. He soon came to a nest of low and dingy buildings, at the entrance to which, in half-effaced characters, was written "Thames Court." Halting at the most conspicuous of these buildings, an inn or alehouse, through the half-closed windows of which blazed out in ruddy comfort the beams of the hospitable hearth, he knocked hastily at the door. He was admitted by a lady of a certain age, and endowed with a comely rotundity of face and person.</p>
            
            <section id="c1_s1" title="Conversation" epub:type="part">
            <p>"Hast got it, Dummie?" said she, quickly, as she closed the door on the guest.</p>
            <p>"Noa, noa! not exactly; but I thinks as 'ow—"</p>
            <p>"Pish, you fool!" cried the woman, interrupting him peevishly. "Vy, it is no use desaving me. You knows you has only stepped from my boosing-ken to another, and you has not been arter the book at all. So there's the poor cretur a raving and a dying, and you—"</p>
            <p>"Let I speak!" interrupted Dummie in his turn.  "I tells you I vent
            first to Mother Bussblone's, who, I knows, chops the whiners morning and
            evening to the young ladies, and I axes there for a Bible; and she says,
            says she, 'I 'as only a "Companion to the _H_alter," but you'll get a
            Bible, I think, at Master Talkins', the cobbler as preaches.'  So I goes
            to Master Talkins, and he says, says he, 'I 'as no call for the Bible,
            —'cause vy?  I 'as a call vithout; but mayhap you'll be a getting it at
            the butcher's hover the vay, -'cause vy? The butcher 'll be damned!'  So
            I goes hover the vay, and the butcher says, says he, 'I 'as not a Bible,
            but I 'as a book of plays bound for all the vorld just like 'un, and
            mayhap the poor cretur may n't see the difference.'  So I takes the
            plays, Mrs. Margery, and here they be sure_ly!_  And how's poor Judy?"</p>
            </section>
            
            <section id="c1_s2" title="Conversation2" epub:type="part">
                <h2 id="c1_s2_h1" class="title">Chapter Two</h2>
                <p>So saying, Dummie ascended a doorless staircase, across the entrance of
                which a blanket, stretched angularly from the wall to the chimney,
                afforded a kind of screen; and presently he stood within a chamber which
                the dark and painful genius of Crabbe might have delighted to portray.
                The walls were whitewashed, and at sundry places strange figures and
                grotesque characters had been traced by some mirthful inmate, in such
                sable outline as the end of a smoked stick or the edge of a piece of
                charcoal is wont to produce.</p>
                <figure id="c1_s2_f1">
                    <figcaption><span class="fig_enum">Dark and Stormy Night? </span><span class="fig_title">Check the Weather</span>A packaged EPUB Scriptable Component.</figcaption>
                    <!-- ESC Drop point - START -->
                    <iframe id="c1_s2_f1_sc1" width="480" height="320" style="width:100%;" src="../components/component_author/component_name/xhtml/component.xhtml"></iframe>
                    <!-- ESC Drop point - END -->
                </figure>
                <p>
                This made the
                scene,—save that on a chair by the bedside lay a profusion of long,
                glossy, golden ringlets, which had been cut from the head of the sufferer
                when the fever had begun to mount upwards, but which, with a jealousy
                that portrayed the darling littleness of a vain heart, she had seized and
                insisted on retaining near her; and save that, by the fire, perfectly
                inattentive to the event about to take place within the chamber, and to
                which we of the biped race attach so awful an importance, lay a large
                gray cat, curled in a ball, and dozing with half-shut eyes, and ears that
                now and then denoted, by a gentle inflection, the jar of a louder or
                nearer sound than usual upon her lethargic senses.  The dying woman did
                not at first attend to the entrance either of Dummie or the female at the
                foot of the bed, but she turned herself round towards the child, and
                grasping his arm fiercely, she drew him towards her, and gazed on his
                terrified features with a look in which exhaustion and an exceeding
                wanness of complexion were even horribly contrasted by the glare and
            energy of delirium.</p>                
            </section>
        </section>
    </body>
</html>
